It's often useful to prepopulate database with hard-coded data when setting up a new app or project.
this can be done using migrations or fixtures.


Using Data Migrations:

    data migrations: as well as changing db schema, migrations can also be instructed to change the data in db itself,
    in conjunction with the schema.

    these migrations that alter the data aswell, are called data migrations.
    they cannot be made automatically.
    they are made of Operations objects classes. and the main one is RunPython.

    (for this example, i created the shop app)
    cmd> python manage.py startapp shop
    then add it to INSTALLED_APPS
    now we need a sample model, i will name mine Product (sine this is a shop app)
    after adding the sample model, create a migration for it.

    ok, now the actual process of this howto starts.
    generate a new empty migration file:
    cmd> python manage.py makemigrations --empty <appName>

    in this migration file, we see a Migration class.
    this class has two class attributes named dependencies and operations.
    we'll leave dependencies.
    we'll need the operations. in data migration RunPython is used to run python codes for each migration file.
    we need to pass a callable to RunPython and add it to this list of operations.
    we added a simple function to aquire the name of the model we want, create one sample object from it,
    and then save as a record.
    the first arg is the django's apps registry which keeps track of all your apps.
    the second one is shema_editor, which is used to manually effect database schema changes.
    (You should NOT manually use shema_editor, (according to ducmentation) django's migration autodetector does not like it.)

    Ok, now if you run the migrations and check the database, you should see one record that exists in our Product table.
    (the table is named shop_product)


Using Fixtures:

    Data can aslo be provided using fixtures, but not automatically.
    fixture is a collection of data that can be imported into database. usually by python manage.py dumpdata command.
    they can be written JSON, YAML, XML.
    i will use json for this example.
    
    - create a fixtures directory inside your app.
    - i added the sample_product.json file to it (look into it to see the structure of it)
    (the primary key i used for the sample record is 2, since my first record was provided using data migration)
    then simply call the command:
    cmd> python manage.py loaddata sample_product.json

    django will look into the fixtures directory of each app, and if found, will insert the content of it into database.
    (this is the default behavior)

    you can also use relative paths (relative to your app)
    i used this approach and yaml file to insert the third record (Sample3)
    cmd> python manage.py shop/data/sample_product.yaml
    (but first, install the pyYAML: pip install pyYAML)
    (.yml resulted into an error: yml is not a known serialization format. .yaml was ok.)

    djagno will also look into a directory defined in a list of dirs in FIXTURE_DIRS config var. (in settings.py)
    I used this approach and XML to insert the Sample4
    first create a folder named 'fixtures' in top level project directory (next to manage.py and your apps folders)
    put your fixture file inside it (no sub-directory with app name is required.)
    then add FIXTURE_DIRS = [ BASE_DIR / "fixtures" ] to settings.py
    - the run:
    cmd> python manage.py loaddata sample_product.xml


Summary:
    Sample -> was provided using data migration (RunPython)
    Sample2 -> was provided using fixture and json format (fixtures folder in app folder)
    Sample3 -> was provided using fixture and yml format (relative custom location)
    Sample4 -> was provided using top-level fixtures directory and xml format (FIXTURE_DIRS)
